You can interact with Heroku directly from Jenkins using the Heroku Plugin. This article will guide you through setting up the plugin and managing your Heroku apps from Jenkins to build a continuous integration workflow.

## Pre-Requisites
* [Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org/) 1.400 or higher.
* A Heroku account. [Sign up](https://api.heroku.com/signup) for an account.

## Installation
1. In Jenkins, go to Manage Jenkins | Manage Plugins | Available.
2. Choose the Heroku Plugin for Jenkins.
3. Click Install.
4. Restart Jenkins.

## API Key Setup
<div class="callout" markdown="1">
It is recommended to create a special user for continuous integration. This will allow you to grant access to a subset of your apps and provide better auditability.
</div>
The plugin requires an API key to identify you to Heroku. It can be configured either globally or for individual build steps. It is recommended that you configure a global key, which will be used as the default, and override in individual build steps only if needed. If a global key is not configured, a key will have be configured in each build step.

1. Find your Heroku API key on your [Heroku account page](https://api.heroku.com/account).
2. In Jenkins, go to Manage Jenkins | Heroku.
3. Enter your API key in the Default API Key field.
4. Click Save.

To override the default API key in a specific build step, click the Advanced button and enter a different key.

## Example Job
1. In Jenkins, click on New Job.
2. Give the job a name and choose a type. Choose "Build a free-style software project" if you are not sure.
3. In the Build section, click the Add Build Step button. You'll notice several Heroku operation you can perform. For example, if you want to run a one-off process on Heroku, choose "Heroku: Run Process". See the Build Steps section below for details about other build steps.
4. After choosing a build step, specific configuration options will be shown. In this example of running a one-off process, you should see two fields:
 - App Name: The name of the Heroku app on which to run the process. If this app does not exist, it will be created.
 - Command:  A command to execute or process type that is present in your application’s Procfile. This could be something like a database migration, but in this example let's just enter `du` to see your app's disk usage.
5. Click Save.
6. Click Build Now to run the job
7. After starting the job, it should appear in the Build History. Click on the job and then Console Output to see the job output, which should look something like this:

        === Starting Heroku: Run Process ===
        Running `du` on my-app... starting, run.1
        48	./lib
        16	./views
        ...
        === Completed Heroku: Run Process ===
        Finished: SUCCESS

This was a very simple example, but multiple build steps can be used consecutively or an interleaved with other tasks to build continuous integration pipelines. See below for details about the various Heroku build steps available.

## Build Steps

### WAR Deployment

The `Deploy WAR Artifact` build step deploys a WAR file generated by your build directly to a Heroku app.

To deploy a WAR file, first make sure your build is successfully creating a deployable WAR file.
If you are using Maven with `<packaging>war</packaging>`, the `mvn package` command will output the WAR file into its `target` directory.
Otherwise, create the WAR file in whatever way is approiate for your build.

After the WAR file is created, add the `Heroku: Deploy WAR Artifact` build step to your under the Jenkins build configuration
and specify the relative path to the WAR file created in a previous build step to deploy.

### Set Configuration
The `Set Configuration` build step adds or updates [config vars](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/config-vars) to the specified app.

### Scale Process

The `Scale Process` build step [scales](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scaling) a process type to a specified quantity.

### Run Process
The `Run Process` build step [runs a one-off process](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cedar#oneoff_processes) on a dyno.

### Rollback
The `Rollback` build step [rolls back](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/releases#rollback) to the previous release.

### Restart
The `Restart` build step [restart](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ps#process_restarts) the specified app.

### Maintenance Mode
The `Maintenance Mode` build step [toggle maintenance mode](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/maintenance-mode) for a given app.